#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.10
# by the following command:
#
#    pip-compile requirements.in
#
aiohappyeyeballs==2.3.5
    # via aiohttp
aiohttp==3.10.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   kubernetes-asyncio
aiosignal==1.3.1
    # via aiohttp
async-timeout==4.0.3
    # via aiohttp
attrs==24.2.0
    # via aiohttp
certifi==2024.7.4
    # via
    #   kubernetes-asyncio
    #   requests
cffi==1.17.0
    # via cryptography
charset-normalizer==3.3.2
    # via requests
click==8.1.7
    # via -r requirements.in
cryptography==43.0.0
    # via openstacksdk
decorator==5.1.1
    # via
    #   dogpile-cache
    #   openstacksdk
dogpile-cache==1.3.3
    # via openstacksdk
frozenlist==1.4.1
    # via
    #   aiohttp
    #   aiosignal
idna==3.7
    # via
    #   requests
    #   yarl
iso8601==2.1.0
    # via
    #   keystoneauth1
    #   openstacksdk
jmespath==1.0.1
    # via openstacksdk
jsonpatch==1.33
    # via openstacksdk
jsonpointer==3.0.0
    # via jsonpatch
keystoneauth1==5.7.0
    # via openstacksdk
kubernetes-asyncio==30.3.1
    # via -r requirements.in
multidict==6.0.5
    # via
    #   aiohttp
    #   yarl
netifaces==0.11.0
    # via openstacksdk
openstacksdk==3.3.0
    # via -r requirements.in
os-service-types==1.7.0
    # via
    #   keystoneauth1
    #   openstacksdk
pbr==6.0.0
    # via
    #   keystoneauth1
    #   openstacksdk
    #   os-service-types
    #   stevedore
platformdirs==4.2.2
    # via openstacksdk
pycparser==2.22
    # via cffi
python-dateutil==2.9.0.post0
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   kubernetes-asyncio
pyyaml==6.0.2
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   kubernetes-asyncio
    #   openstacksdk
requests==2.32.3
    # via
    #   -r requirements.in
    #   keystoneauth1
requestsexceptions==1.4.0
    # via openstacksdk
six==1.16.0
    # via
    #   kubernetes-asyncio
    #   python-dateutil
stevedore==5.2.0
    # via
    #   dogpile-cache
    #   keystoneauth1
tomli==2.0.1
    # via -r requirements.in
typing-extensions==4.12.2
    # via dogpile-cache
urllib3==2.2.2
    # via
    #   kubernetes-asyncio
    #   requests
yarl==1.9.4
    # via aiohttp
